Create ui-c8y-1020-40-1-fieldbus-write-register.md (#2561)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/device-management/ui-c8y-1020-40-1-fieldbus-write-register.md

---
date: ""

> title: Fieldbus write register

Author: The Claude AI suggested to use the following title:
```suggestion
title: Added support for writing registers on fieldbus devices
```

> title: Fieldbus write register

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Behavior of "Set" button in "Fieldbus device" widget has been fixed
```

> title: Behavior of "Set" button in "Fieldbus device" widget has been fixed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Values for registers and coils in the "Fieldbus device" widget can be modified properly
```

product_area: Device management & connectivity
change_type:
  - value: change-VSkj2iV9m
    label: Fix
component:
  - value: component--KIsStyzM
    label: Device Management app
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-pjJiURv9Y
    label: ui-c8y
ticket: DM-4002
version: 1020.40.1
---

> Fieldbus write register

Author: The Claude AI suggested to use the following body:
```suggestion
To enable more advanced interactions with fieldbus devices connected to Cumulocity IoT, support for writing registers on these devices has been added. With this change, it is now possible to not only read values from fieldbus devices, but also write configuration or command registers on them directly from Cumulocity IoT. This greatly expands the capabilities when integrating machines and sensors connected via fieldbus protocols into IoT solutions, allowing for remote configuration and control in addition to monitoring.
```

> Fieldbus write register

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the "Fieldbus device" widget, registers and coils that can be changed are represented by active widgets that allow users to change the corresponding coil or register by sending an operation to the terminal. Changing a value and clicking "Set" creates an operation. This did not work properly and has been fixed now.
```

> In the "Fieldbus device" widget, modifying registers and coils by clicking the **Set** button did not work properly. This issue has been fixed and an operation for changing values for registers and coils will be created after clicking **Set**.

Reviewer 3: "...has been fixed and an operation for changing values..." This implies that this hasn't been the case before. Is this correct? If not I wouldn't mention it. If yes it would make sense to also describe the previous behavior to allow me as reader to undesrstand what has been change in order to make it work now.

Reviewer: @aaronraab  The result of clicking "Set" button was designed to create an operation that would trigger the value change on the device. The button was however not linked to any action and clicking it did not produce any result. This is fixed and the button now works as desgined.

> In the "Fieldbus device" widget, modifying registers and coils by clicking the **Set** button did not work properly. This issue has been fixed and an operation for changing values for registers and coils will be created after clicking **Set**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the "Fieldbus device" widget, modifying registers and coils by clicking the **Set** button did not work properly. This issue has been fixed and an operation to update the values will be triggered as intended.
```

> In the "Fieldbus device" widget, modifying registers and coils by clicking the **Set** button did not work properly. This issue has been fixed and an operation for changing values for registers and coils will be created after clicking **Set**.```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the "Fieldbus device" widget, modifying registers and coils by clicking the **Set** button did not work properly. This issue has been fixed and an operation for changing values for registers and coils will be created after clicking **Set**.
```

> In the "Fieldbus device" widget, registers and coils that can be changed are represented by active widgets that allow users to change the corresponding coil or register by sending an operation to the terminal. Changing a value and clicking "Set" creates an operation. This did not work properly and has been fixed now.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the "Fieldbus device" widget, saving modified registers and coils by clicking the **Set** button did not work properly. This issue has been fixed and modified values for registers and coils will be saved after clicking **Set**.
```

Reviewer: Changing this a bit since clicking the "Set" button doesn't directly save the value but creates an operation.

> In the "Fieldbus device" widget, registers and coils that can be changed are represented by active widgets that allow users to change the corresponding coil or register by sending an operation to the terminal. Changing a value and clicking "Set" creates an operation. This did not work properly and has been fixed now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the "Fieldbus device" widget, modifying registers and coils by clicking the **Set** button did not work properly. This issue has been fixed and an operation for changing values for registers and coils will be created after clicking **Set**.```
